[Music]
now before your next dinner out on the
town please consider these 15 tricks
restaurant use to make you spend more
remember that time you weighed out and
went well beyond your planned budget
does that happen way too often it's no
surprise since restaurants use smart
tricks to make you spend more money you
can of course check your bills for
dishes you didn't order but this trick
isn't really used anymore
before you learn about some new and
pretty sly tricks restaurants are using
these days click the subscribe button
and give that notification bellow ring
to always stay on the bright side of
life
number one saving money on fresh fruit
bartenders often save on fruits not
because they lack these products but
from simple laziness for example to make
a drink with freshly squeezed juice they
need three oranges sometimes they lack
the two fluid ounces necessary to make a
full portion what should they do in that
situation that's right squeeze another
whole orange however instead of doing
that they pour the missing amount from a
carton of orange juice
thus saving their time number 2 cozy
tables in restaurants almost all
restaurants are interested in having as
many cozy and secluded spots for their
patrons as possible you're likely to
spend more time at a comfortable table
which means you'll order more to make
people who are dining alone feel
comfortable in a restaurant and
especially in coffee shops small round
tables are placed throughout the space
number 3
tricky dish arrangements a restaurant
can significantly increase its monthly
profit by using some marketing tricks
for example there's a whole science
behind menu psychology merchandising and
marketing expert Alban Seberg described
it in his book menu design clients
choose dishes located in the middle of
the menu page more often that's why
owners of catering the
businesses indicate expensive more
profitable dishes in this space huh
the least expensive items find
themselves in the lower left area of the
menu in small fonts to make it harder
for you to notice and read them
restaurants also try to prevent you from
comparing prices by either putting
similar items on different pages or
using weird fonts finally they sell all
types of desserts equally they set a
similar price for desserts
despite their ingredients or the
products weight number for saving money
on expensive products David Kinch LOH
president of the Association of national
restaurant consultants says that patrons
most often get the minimum amount of
expensive ingredients in their dishes
but their presence is still indicated on
the menu for example berries seeds nuts
and truffles can be very appealing on
the menu restaurants must create the
notion that they are there on the plate
even if there's just one single berry to
leave the client feeling pleased number
5 unusual name for dishes playing with
dish names also works well on diners
marketers spend a good deal of time
inventing names and descriptions for the
dishes on a menu what sounds more
exciting to you perch fillet or fillet
of Chilean sea bass a cake with Belgian
chocolate or a chocolate cake they also
try to make the name sound more
authentic it works especially well with
Italian restaurants where they call the
soup and salad section of the menu Zuppa
ISA latte ciao baby
inspiring nostalgia also helps you're
more likely to order grandma's homemade
scallops or Uncle Ben's pizza than an
emotionless dinner number 6
reduced portions and small plates you
may have noticed that restaurants have
started to reduce the sizes of their
portions but they haven't changed their
prices those who work in the catering
sphere say that the idea of reducing
portions came from retail for example
you often see packages of one
point seven five pounds instead of two
pounds moreover some restaurants
decrease the size of their plates to
create the illusion of sufficient
portions number seven special buffet
arrangements
do you like buffet restaurants you
probably think they can't fool you there
because you pick your own foods oops
they have their own tricks the foods
that cost the least such as bread and
salad are normally at the start of the
buffet allowing you to stuff your plate
with them and leave no room for the more
expensive foods word to the wise grab
the meat first number eight photos of
dishes and the absence of currency
symbols according to restaurant menu
specialist Greg Raab using photos and
illustrations of dishes increases sales
by three times when it's the only image
on a page some restaurant owners rarely
indicate currency symbols on their menu
research from Cornell University showed
that visitors who were offered a choice
of dishes without currency signs spent
much more than those who got the same
menu with currency signs number nine
fish Monday most restaurants order fresh
fish on Tuesdays and Thursdays
that's why fish very often becomes the
dish of the day on Mondays because they
need to sell it before it expires the
reason for arranging various deals and
profitable offers are the same those
dishes are often cooked ahead of the
other products because their expiration
date is approaching quickly number 10
free snacks it feels so good when a
waiter brings you complimentary snacks
before taking your order Olive crackers
and chips are not a kind gesture of the
owner as you might think the real reason
for such complimentary snacks is to make
you feel thirsty after eating several of
those salty snacks you'll want to order
more drinks
bringing a bigger profit to the owner of
the cafe number 11 the decoy effect when
you look at the wine card you'll most
likely skip the most
expensive wine however you won't go for
the cheapest either so as not to look
cheap your choice will most likely be
the second most expensive wine newsflash
knowing about this trend restaurants
don't only overpriced the first item on
the list but also the second so when you
think you're saving money you're
actually still paying more than you
should
number 12 specially selected music
Charles Spence an experimental
psychologist at the University of Oxford
is positive that music affects us both
physically and emotionally
especially when it's accompanied by food
expensive restaurants choose classical
music which encourages visitors to spend
more because it makes them feel richer
more than that restaurants specializing
in certain cuisines can turn on certain
classical music to create the best
possible atmosphere who wouldn't enjoy a
bottle of expensive French wine
accompanied by expensive sounding French
music gee I don't know number 13 -
Portia incises sometimes you can see the
same dish on the menu available in two
options a large portion and a small one
this strategy is called bracketing
William Poundstone American author
columnist and skeptic describes it in
his book priceless the myth of fair
value and how to take advantage of it a
client initially has no idea what a mini
portion is like and thinks that a
smaller portion has a better price and
that they'll spend less money by
ordering it in truth a restaurant always
sells a smaller portion for an increased
price saving funds on the number of
products used eventually in terms of
weight a larger portion is a better
value for you number 14 muffled light
lighting can influence the speed at
which people eat expensive restaurants
usually prefer soft lighting in their
halls so that their visitors can relax
they are likely to spend more
I'm in a restaurant with such a calm
environment and will spend more money
which is very important for the owners
number 15
friendly waiters very often one may
notice very cheerful and friendly
waiters and restaurants any restaurant
owner thinks that a good waiter should
be a good seller too that's why they
will make you laugh give you compliments
and recommend the best dishes from the
menu as clients start to trust them they
agree to special offers without even
asking the price and they even opt for
dessert after a heavy dinner thanks to
such friendly employees visitors spend
more time in restaurants and leave good
tips wow that's a whole new kind of
trick-or-treat huh have you ever noticed
any of these tricks or any other tricks
in restaurants tell us in the comments
below don't forget to give us a like and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]